and you are watching one one seven TV
well there is so much excitement around
this brand-new project from skillet and
we are so fortunate to get to sit down
and talk to them today congratulations
some llama waited for music thank you so
much I appreciate it
I know that all of your fans what do
they called panheads
yes you know it's really funny actually
the peanuts started because when skillet
first started we did not sell that many
records but the few records we sold were
like diehard people the world was made
up of mostly everyone who had no idea
who we were and like psycho skillet fans
and they would bring skillets to the
shows and one time somebody was wearing
one yeah it was a festival at a skillet
on top of his head like a hat yeah and
he had a duct tape around his head and
somebody said it looks like a real pan
head there
yeah and almost like four million pan
heads later the new project is called
rise and and this project ended up being
somewhat event narrative and
storytelling type project which really
didn't start out that way did it no it
did not actually it was it was it was in
no way a concept record or a rock opera
rock opera has a certain romance to it
doesn't it you know sometimes I call it
anyway
but it did become that you know just
being really clear that these songs were
all telling a story and that it was very
relevant for today it's what's happening
in our world right now and it's the
story of basically your average American
teenager that is coming into adulthood
and being faced with um how terrible and
tragic the world can be all these masses
brought school shootings and bombings
and earthquakes but also the problems in
their own lives they fighting with their
their parents bullying in high school
the world there's so many voices telling
them who to be and it's about their
journey to rise up to transcend all of
these things going on that are holding
them captive on earth really cool and I
love there's a little industry event
before this and I loved what you said to
it about that
when it comes to the lyrics and the
message in these musics that you wish as
a teenager you had been able to hear
those things yourself that's pretty
powerful is that part of the mission in
the in the goal as far as impacting
young people and others alike absolutely
yeah I mean music is so powerful and you
know sometimes you know when you get
older you know you like music but you
forget what it was like what like when I
first heard Michael Jackson when I first
heard Metallica and you know you go to
school and you will notice that all the
same groups of kids all listening to the
same kind of music it is you and as a as
a person as the kind of people who hang
out the way you dress it's all hand in
hand so music is so powerful that we
want to use our music as a platform to
impact the world you know the way that
music has impacted us you know and just
singing about things that matter and
that hopefully can help people and
that's why it's so amazing when we get
meet people that say your music helped
you know change my life right and
leading off on this project you've got
American noise and then sick of it as
well that's a little preview into here
that was great to get those out that's
exciting
and again those kind of messages that
you talked about in those even yeah you
know I'm sick of it is a song that I eat
in particularly like because it's very
aggressive yeah and I tell people it
sounds like an outburst of positive
anger you know it's very angry sounding
but when you listen to the words it's
very uplifting and it's very much like a
break free from the things holding you
whether that's addiction whether that's
world telling you what you gotta do as a
woman or as a growing you know young
girl or whatever you have to lose weight
or you have to do this you're never
gonna fit in or as a band like us you
can't talk about Jesus so much you'll
never make it as a rock band sick of it
a song that's saying you know what this
is what I want to change and I'm taking
control of my life that feels good to me
hey speaking of you the first project to
actually have Seth on it are there times
I mean you you just pinch yourself that
you're a part of skillet because I'm
sure that you were right yeah I've been
saying all day I was laying in bed last
night in hotel you just had like this is
really happening
yes very surreal very exciting and Cory
talk to me a little bit about the nature
of your touring your stage shows really
that and there's such a strength in your
stage shows I've been to show myself
absolutely amazing that there's a
theatrical quality behind your touring
and I know you're kind of a part of the
vision for this group what and how do
you come up with the coolness of your
shows well the coolness is this guy
right here I'm the shadow of the
coolness and the darker side she used to
give yourself more credit doesn't she
but I think that we want when people are
paying money for a show we want to give
them the show so it's not at that point
it's not just about the songs it's about
the experience and so and we're both
eighties children so in the 80s
everybody had big shows you know whether
it's really a trickle like Peter Gabriel
asked you know which is I'm a big fan of
his or you have you know your pyro heavy
metal whatever everybody had a big show
and then it kind of is not really
happening anymore we're kind of like
we're headlining these people are paying
money to see us and they need to get
more than just our music they need the
whole experience and then we want to
impact them with our message as well and
you can do that through music through
speaking and through everything else so
John's really good at creating moments
in the set so it's not just like all
guns blazing all the time right you got
it you know take it up take it down take
it up take it down and your voice like
does that a little bit too it mimics
that doesn't it as far as bringing it
down a little bit with it like Lucy or
something like that yeah we like the
dynamics yeah you gotta you gotta keep
them on their toes and not know what's
next right
people and I'd like to give a little
more credit to Jin here the artwork on
the album cover is awesome I didn't
realize that you that you created that
so there's a whole nother side to your
artistry huh yeah thanks I still can't
believe I got to do it but as the songs
are coming together and as we were in
the studio I just felt so moved by the
music and I started seeing things and I
just I just felt like the reason the
girl came around was because I was just
feeling so like as a Christian you can
feel inadequate and just unprepared and
like not worthy to do the calling of God
and I was just thinking how David and
Goliath you know he was the least of all
his brothers but God chose him to slay a
giant you know and and that's why she's
holding the catapult or the slingshot
with the stone and I just felt like as
Christians you know me though you may
feel insignificant you may feel small
with the Lord anything is possible and
as Christians we should rise you know
with faith knowing who our God is and
then a little girl won't be scared to
stand up to a war a battle you know and
right I wanted to choose something that
looks insignificant but obviously showed
power and you accomplished that it's
really really great and I know that this
project is going to minister just so
many thank you guys so much for sitting
here and talking with us we appreciate
it again it's called rice and I know
that lots of people are going to be very
anxious to download purchase and get
this music so I think you guys really
appreciate it
all right thank you